Q. When would you want to use a remote repository rather than keeping all your work local?

A. When working on a project with other developers, or from multiple computers/locations. I or we can edit remotely but upload to a central repository. Also helps not to lose work if any machine fails.

Q. Why might you want to always pull changes manually rather than having Git automatically stay up-to-date with your remote repository?

A. You would want to examine the changes first before deciding if you need them, agree with them etc.

Q. Describe the differences between forks, clones, and branches. When would you use one instead of another?

A. Don't know. Fork is a copy of something from github, ie someone else has code and you sort of clone it. CLone is... I dunno... so the lesson didn't stick. Branch is... I dunno. So the lesson didn't stick.

Q. What is the benefit of having a copy of the last known state of the remote stored locally?

A. You can compare your code to what's on the remote.

Q. How would you collaborate without using Git or GitHub? What would be easier, and what would be harder?

A. Either a messy mix of file storage, with multiple versions of files or directories with numbers or timestamps indicating versions.
   Or another versioning tool such as svn.
   Which is easier or harder... well the file thing is the worst... svn is an improvement, though it is very far short of amazing or wonderful.
   Git may be the same as svn or better, the jurys out. But it IS the most widely used and therefore more worthwhile to use.
   
Q. When would you want to make changes in a separate branch rather than directly in master? What benefits does each approach have?

A. I think the benefit of changing in master is speed and simplicity.
   But the benefit of using a branch is safety, its easier to have people peer review and analyse changes.
   It's easy to not put bad code in and break a build. Easier to revert.
   Do work for different versions, customers, releases.

   